Looping Statements
Conditional Statements
Arrays
Small functions like length,replace,equals,trim
String Buffer & Builder
Classes & Objects
Methods
Constructors

Getter & Setter Methods


OOPs concepts:-

Object-Oriented Programming is a methodology or paradigm to design a program using classes and objects. It simplifies software development and maintenance by providing some concepts:

1. Object
2. Class
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism
5. Abstraction
6. Encapsulation


Object:-

An Object can be defined as an instance of a class. An object contains an address and takes up some space in memory.


Class:-

Collection of objects is called class. It is a logical entity.
A class can also be defined as a blueprint from which you can create an individual object. Class doesn't consume any space.


Inheritance:-

When one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object, it is known as inheritance. It provides code reusability. It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism.


Polymorphism:-

If one task is performed in different ways, it is known as polymorphism.
In Java, we use method overloading and method overriding to achieve polymorphism.


Abstraction:-

Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction.
In Java, we use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction.


Encapsulation:-

Binding (or wrapping) code and data together into a single unit are known as encapsulation.
A java class is the example of encapsulation. Java bean is the fully encapsulated class because all the data members are private here.


Keywords:-

final: Java final keyword is used to indicate that a variable holds a constant value. It is used with a variable. It is used to restrict the user from updating the value of the variable.


Java static method:-

The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly.

If you apply static keyword with any method, it is known as static method.

A static method belongs to the class rather than the object of a class.
A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class.
A static method can access static data member and can change the value of it.

Static Restriction:-

The static method can not use non static data member or call non-static method directly.
this and super cannot be used in static context.


this keyword usage:-

this can be used to refer current class instance variable.
this can be used to invoke current class method (implicitly)
this() can be used to invoke current class constructor.


Usage of Java super Keyword:-

super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.


